[Music]
in the tropical forests through New
Guinea one male is dedicated to making
an unforgettable first impression the
six-plumed bird-of-paradise is cleaning
his display ground he obsessively tied
is every fallen leaf his stage must be
meticulously tidy for what will be an
incredible performance a few attractive
berries to help decorate the floor this
final touch is hardly ever seen might he
think he's found a bit of old snakeskin
some scientists believe he's trying to
add the scent of a snake to ward off
predators for others it's a cleaning
cloth and he's polishing a perch for a
female
later he uses a bigger bit of rag and
does the same only strong healthy and
well-fed males can afford the time and
effort for the most meticulous
preparation and in theory they're the
ones with better genes to pass on you
have a highly critical audience so it's
time to rehearse the main act
[Music]
his dance steps perfected he's ready to
start the show for real he spots a
female nearby so quickly goes to get
more berries to tempt her in disaster
he's left his polishing rag on the dance
floor it's perfect for her nest she
flies off without even seeing his dance
he delivers his berries too late he
never got a chance to win her heart and
he lost his precious polishing cloth
back to work from Oscar's monkeys they
are named after their strange tumescent
noses but proboscis have also been
called the cows of the canopy they are
the only primate with a digestive system
equipped to chew the cud
to minimize the level of any poison in
their bodies
no one plant can dominate their diet so
they are constantly on the move and then
pick only the youngest less toxic leaves
their immense bellies are packed with a
very long extended gut and a complex
stomach with four separate chambers that
take 50 hours to digest dinner and
despite all this most of the forests
foliage is too difficult to digest in
this nutrient war driven by the monsoon
the trees are run away winners they not
only dictate the bodies and lifestyles
of these monkeys but ensure that the
density of mammals is kept low in the
rainforests of Australia
the giant castle is in danger from a
feral invader
March 2018 the BBC's seven worlds one
planet team arrived in northern
Queensland their aim to film one of the
world's largest birds the cassowary
we are in the daintree rainforest in
North Queensland and it's one of the
oldest patches of rainforests in the
world growing to a height of one and a
half meters and equipped with enormous
dinosaur like claws cassowaries have
been described as the planet's most
dangerous birds but these feathered
Giants are shy and prefer to stay hidden
in dense tropical rainforest there are
only around 2,000 left in Australia to
locate them the team set up a series of
camera traps but instead of cassowaries
they discover another animal that could
threaten the future of the entire forest
there's like eight pigs enough that when
was that we put up loads and camera
traps around the place and most of the
footage we got back were of feral pigs
pigs are not meant to be in this
rainforest they were brought to
Australia as farm animals by European
settlers in the 1700s they soon escaped
and now there are around 24 million
living feral across the continent damage
we see it all over the place they're
trying to find some food but then doing
so they disrupt all the topsoil so that
if it rains heavily which it does all
the time all the soil washes away and
then the trees can't stand up so they're
basically causing havoc they also eat
all the food banks can grow massive so
that can really be a threat to our
kasseri especially the Czech
pigs are omnivores as well as stripping
the forests of the fruit the cassowaries
depend on they can eat their eggs and
even their chicks with such a small
population this new threat could see the
cassowary disappear forever from
Australia which would be disastrous for
this ancient rainforest the castle is
crucial for the Daintree rainforest to
survive their keystone species and this
fruit in particular relies on the
cassowary to germinate it goes through
Casarez gut and once it's done that it
is obviously food out and it is able to
grow in its own little pile of Caffery
fertilizer it's estimated that over a
hundred plant species here depend almost
entirely on the cassowary as their
method of seed dispersal they can eat
fruits that are you know this big they
walk kilometers in a day so they take
them really far away and I have really
gentle digestive system
[Music]
so if the cassowaries are at risk all
the other plants and animals that rely
on them are also in danger invasive
species are now the number one threat to
Australia's native wildlife they have
already contributed to the extinction of
more than a hundred indigenous species
of flora and fauna it's hard to predict
just how many feral pigs there are in
the Daintree but the camera traps
suggest their numbers are increasing at
this moment little is being done to
remove or prevent the spread of pigs so
unless action is taken soon Australia
may lose another of its iconic wildlife
species
[Music]
compared parent fish nearly a metre and
a half in length their jaws are so
powerful they can bite through rock when
they descend to feed the reef itself is
under threat
they are indiscriminate feeders taking
both rock and coral alike in their quest
for our game these fish play a large
part in the erosion of the reef the rock
and coral they swallow emerges later as
a fine sand on a single reef they can
produce tons of it every year
this soft sound forms the tropical
beaches that we find so alluring
over time the sand builds up to form an
island which is then colonized by
animals and plants
[Music]
trees take root birds arrive
the guano from thousands of terms which
have chosen to mist here enriches the
sandy soil which then can support more
plants
[Music]
[Applause]